There’s something magical about snow.

There’s also something dangerous about it. Like Hans Christian Andersen, upon whose story it’s based, the makers of “Frozen” understand this and use the dual nature of a snow-covered world to maximum effect.

“Frozen” is a delightful animated musical, a return to form for Disney animation with an intriguing story and terrific songs. What’s especially encouraging about it is how directors Chris Buck and Jennifer Lee take a classic tale — Anderson’s “The Snow Queen” — and update it, without beating us over the head with references that draw attention to the modernization.

Granted, “Frozen” in the end bears little resemblance to “The Snow Queen,” but that’s OK. It’s plenty good enough to stand on its own.

The story takes place in the small Scandinavian kingdom of Arendelle. Anna (Kristen Bell) awakens Elsa (Idina Menzel) in the middle of the night and begs her to play. Elsa protests but eventually agrees. This is when we learn that Elsa has the ability to instantly produce snow and ice with the wave of a hand.

But an accident forces Elsa to grow up isolated, locked away alone in her room, while Anna (who has had her childhood memories erased by friendly trolls) frets over why her sister won’t see her or play with her.

Eventually Elsa becomes queen. She wears gloves for the coronation, for which the castle gates are finally opened to the people of the kingdom, and all goes well. Until, that is, Anna announces to Elsa that she is getting married to Hans (Santino Fontana), a prince in town for the celebration she met earlier in the day. (You can see Elsa’s point.)

This leads to an argument, which then leads to dire consequences for Arendelle: In a fit of anger, Elsa inadvertently freezes the entire kingdom with permanent snow and ice. Elsa runs away; soon Anna is giving chase. She meets the goofy Kristoff (Jonathan Groff), who delivers ice. He, along with his trusty moose, accompanies her on her search for Anna.

Eventually they’re joined by Olaf, and immediately the cynicism meter kicks into the red. He’s a cutesy snowman who seems to scream fast-food tie-in potential, and that might well be true. But he’s voiced so wonderfully by Josh Gad that it doesn’t matter. Instead of a marketing gimmick, Olaf, thanks to Gad, turns out to be one of Disney’s more-entertaining creatures, providing humor and heart.

As with many stories, the chase is more interesting than where it leads. And if there isn’t anything especially novel about the characters (princesses, princes, well-meaning doofuses there to help), the cast portraying them is uniformly excellent. Bell in particular gives Anna a spunk modern kids will recognize and appreciate, without betraying the core elements of the character.

It’s an out-and-out musical, and the songs are both lively and advance the story. Menzel’s “Let It Go” is a show-stopper, as they say, accompanied by incredible animation as Elsa …

Wait. Nope. Saying more would give too much away. There are a lot of twists in “Frozen,” including one whopper. This isn’t always the case, but here saying too much would ruin the enjoyment of the movie.

And this is a movie that should be enjoyed, with its themes of hard-won acceptance and self-confidence. It’s not flawless and it requires at least some tolerance for show tunes, but “Frozen” is a real treat.