I'm an 18 year old girl, who is a HUGE Disney fan and loves watching what her friends deem "little kid movies". I was looking for a way to celebrate finishing my first semester at college(in December), so I went to see Frozen, which had gotten great reviews. 

The beginning of the movie was decent. Do You Want to Build a Snowman made me tear up and Kristen Bell and Santino Fontana's voices sounded like they were made for each other in Love is an Open Door. However, the positivity stops there. At the end of Love is an Open Door, when Prince Hans asks Anna to marry him, I immediately KNEW that something was wrong and that this was an attempt to mock the Disney "love-at- first-sight" cliché. Now, before I continue, I'd just like to point out that I am ridiculously sick of people praising Elsa for being the first Disney princess to say "You can't marry a man you just met".

1) This is a result of people on the internet poking fun at Disney Princess movies. However, if those people even bothered to REALLY watch them, they'd realize that although this movie may be the first to explicitly state that girls shouldn't marry someone they just met, this is not a new concept in the Disney world. In fact, I don't recall Pocahontas, Mulan, Rapunzel, Tiana, Jasmine, or Belle marrying men that they just met.

2) Re-watch that scene. She only said that because she was worried about Hans' brothers staying over for the wedding and having yet another social event that she'd be required to attend. She panics and says "No one's brothers are staying here. No one's getting married". See her priorities? Elsa's reason for not blessing their marriage doesn't stem from their quick engagement. It's much more self-centered than that. 

Next, let's not forget the plot holes, the most obvious one being the anti-climatic ending: "Of course...Love!" Sorry, what? Elsa trying to protect Anna from herself wasn't love? Besides, why does Elsa even have powers? Why are there trolls and where did they come from? Why did Prince Hans protect Elsa if he wanted her dead? He could have been "distracted" when the guard was trying to kill Elsa. Why does Olaf come to life and where has he been the entire time the girls were growing up? Maybe the directors should have paid less attention to casting *famous* people and more to making a good plot. (Casting complaint: Elsa looked like she was in her mid-twenties and sounded old enough to be Anna's mother.)

Anyways, moving on to my next complaint: Olaf, the snowman AKA my least favorite character in the entire movie. His awkward attempts at jokes and sheer stupidity were torturous to sit through. In Summer was one of the worst songs in the movie, right up there with Fixer Upper. What is Fixer Upper even promoting? Cheating?!?! Because that's what I thought as the trolls sang about getting Anna's fiancé out of the way. Also, I could not stand how Anna flirted with and almost MARRIED Kristoff while engaged to Hans. Luckily for her, Prince Hans just *happened* to be a villain. How very convenient (and completely unnecessary). Elsa, having been alone her entire life, could have used a love story and Kristoff would have been the perfect match for her. Elsa and Kristoff could have bonded over her powers and his love for ice. Instead, Kristoff and Anna ended up being an extremely weak, unlikeable rip-off of Flynn and Rapunzel. 

Lastly, having watched Disney movies all my life, I have to say, this movie has the largest percentage of bad songs I've ever seen in a single movie. "Let it Go" is the most overrated song I have EVER heard and I was quite disappointed to hear that it had won the Oscar for Best Original Song. The rhymes were unoriginal and it was not memorable at all, although after hearing people sing it 24/7, it does get ingrained into your brain. Some of the other songs were catchy, but there was still a HUGE lack of originality in the rhymes. Even my nine-year-old sister criticized the Frozen songwriters' creativity, pointing out that they rhymed "door" and "anymore" in four songs ("Do You Want to Build a Snowman", "For the First Time in Forever", "Love is an Open Door", and "Let it Go"). 

To summarize, this movie was not deserving of the Oscars it won. Then again, there was not much competition this year. This movie was basically a slap in the face to all the Classic Disney Princess movies and is tied for #1 with Brave on my Worst Disney Princess Movies list. If you REALLY want to see a movie worth watching, I recommend Tangled, which is as underrated as Frozen is overrated. The songs, plot, and characters are much better developed and the whole movie is absolutely delightful. The music was beautifully composed and don't even get me started on how amazing Donna Murphy, Zachary Levi, and Mandy Moore's performances were! Whereas I will never re-watch Frozen, I re-watch Tangled every couple of months even though I can quote the entire movie and sing every song. I know many Tangled fans went to see Frozen - expecting it to be as good as Tangled- and were very disappointed. Disney may be gaining new fans, but they're losing their loyal fans. Look at Frozen's percentage of 1/10 ratings compared to those of Tangled. Until Disney gets their act together, I will not be wasting any more of my time watching these movies in theaters. As Zazu said, "If this is where the monarchy is headed, count me out".

tl;dr- Plot holes galore. Lackluster songs. Terrible morals/lessons. Save your money and time.