Disney is at it again with a prince, a princess and a queen in "Frozen." In one sense, then, this animated feature for the holidays is frozen in the studio's fairy tale past. Yet the film transcends its various borrowings and occasional stumblings with a modern, exuberant spirit that draws heat from Broadway-style musical numbers and, before and after everything else, from marvelous 3-D animation. The superstars here are the animators. If you thought there was only so much to be done with ice and snow as visual fields, think again along the lines of prismatic crystals, epic storms and fantastical structures built on water's gift for freezing itself into see-through art.

During the preprince preface, two young princesses in a kingdom called Arendelle command most of the attention: Anna and her older sister Elsa, who are voiced respectively, and beautifully, by Kristen Bell and Idina Menzel. In the screenplay that Jennifer Lee based ever so loosely on Hans Christian Andersen's "The Snow Queen"—Ms. Lee also directed, with Chris Buck —Anna is a sweet little scamp who grows up to be a joyous woman, while Elsa has a superpower that's a curse. She's a cryogenic Carrie, or a female version of Frozone, from "The Incredibles." Whenever she's swept by strong feelings, she fires off subzero salvos ranging from icicle daggers to sheets of ice that can hurt, kill or, as is the case after she becomes queen, turn her kingdom's radiant summer into shivering winter.

The early part of the film is peculiarly rushed, a pastiche of plot points that are ticked off rather than developed. But it does establish the sisters as polar opposites, and rings in the first of the songs, by Robert Lopez and Kristen Anderson-Lopez, that give the story its buoyancy and dramatic clarity. Anna, the cockeyed optimist, falls in love as soon as the prince of the piece appears—his name is Hans, and he's unquestionably though generically handsome. Elsa, unable to suppress her lethal power, leaves her throne for a snowbound mountaintop, where she'll do her subjects no further harm. Reduced to its narrative essentials, "Frozen" is the tale of Anna's journey to find her sister and free the kingdom from what threatens to be eternal winter.

Comic relief crops up, of course, en route. Anna's traveling companions are an earnest rustic named Kristoff, who cuts and sells ice for a living (his business has taken a hit from the local climate change); Kristoff's mute but savvy reindeer, Sven; and a funny little snowman, Olaf, whose habit of detaching and reassembling his body parts recalls Mr. Potato Head from Pixar's "Toy Story" trilogy. A creature of Elsa's magic powers, Olaf doesn't understand that warmth isn't his friend. This is perilous for him but good for us, because he gets his own musical number, a charming song-and-dance routine in which he dreams a dream of radiant summer.

Imperfections crop up too; this film won't be mistaken for one of the animated classics that Disney was turning out in the 1990s. A couple of consultations with a gathering of rocklike trolls is one too many. Anna's dual attachment to Kristoff and Prince Hans blurs the story's focus, since it has her chasing between her sister's mountain and Arendelle. And Elsa's supposedly fierce guardian, a gigantic snowman called Marshmallow, is a nondescript monster who should have been sent back to the drawing board.

Reduced to its emotional essentials, however, "Frozen" comes up strong, with several surprises. Anna isn't one of them. She's exactly the free spirit she seems to be, and all the more endearing for it. But Hans is more complicated than he seems. And Elsa's plight speaks, and sings, to the pain of isolation. Always a good girl as a child, rigidly perfectionist as a young adult and terrified of unleashing the full force of her feelings, she's a heroine for our times.

